---
layout: post
title:  "S01E09"
excerpt: "Clean architecture, clean boundaries and clean shirts."
---

## Clean Architecture – Robert C. Martin

I'm not a big fan of Uncle Bob these days, but still a lot of his lessons helped me grow as a Software Developer and Wannabe Software Architect a few years ago. This is one of my favourite talks of him, on the importance of programming with intent, and of letting your codebase reflect not only your architecture, but the actual problem you're trying to solve. Before DDD, CQRS, noSQL and noFrameworks, just stop and think about the way you've been putting files into folders, and start from there.   

{% include vimeoPlayer.html id="43612849" %}

*2012, 57m*

## Boundaries – Gary Bernhardt

Bernhardt is one of My Heroes, an amazing programmer, speaker and divulgator, but unfortunately he has the tendency to disappear his public talks from the Internet every now and then, so watch this one while it's still up. Functional Programming, Object Oriented Programming, are just ways to speak about the worlds we're building, and as with every language, we speak differently in different contexts. Again, this talk gave me another foundational tool to think about the way we organize software, and the way we can leverage these styles in different contexts. 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="yTkzNHF6rMs" %}

*2012, 45m*

## The Future of Programming – Bret Victor

And now for something completely different: 40 (now 45) years ago Bret Victor travelled in time to bring us the light out of the Software Crisis tunnel. Or did he? The perfect way to illustrate the point that in this industry we've been fighting the same fights for decades, is to transcend time, take out a tie and an overhead projector and tell the story of a different future, from a different past, that's maybe just the same present.

{% include vimeoPlayer.html id="71278954" %}

*2013, 32m*