---
layout: post
title:  "S01E08"
excerpt: "Of magic code, lost ways and microservice herding"
---

## 8 Lines of Code – Greg Young

Explicit is better than implicit: Young doesn't talk about Event Sourcing for once, but gives a little gem of a keynote where he deconstructs 8 lines of "magic code". He's coming from the Enterprise Frameworks world of a few years ago, and maybe we learned some lessons in between, but did we really?

<div class="ext-link"><a href="https://www.infoq.com/presentations/8-lines-code-refactoring">Watch on InfoQ</a></div>

*2013, 45m*

## How Agile and OO have lost their way together – James Coplien

Death to Agile, third and final act: another heretic, but this time he's - plot twist! - one of the "godfathers" of Scrum. This talk is packed full with controversial opinions, as you would expect from someone who inspired XP practices and wrote a paper titled "Why Most Unit Testing is Waste" at the same time. If you want to challenge your convictions, bring a notepad for this one. 

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="DOyNfmqwR98" %}

*2016, 58m*

## From Homogeneous Monolith to Radically Heterogeneous Microservices Architecture – Chad Fowler

So, you want to microservice? "The other Fowler" tells the story of Wunderlist migration away from the monolith, the pains and the gains. Having the possibility to "pick the best technology for each service" comes at a price, and most of the time the challenges are somewhat more than just technical.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="sAsRtZEGMMQ" %}

*2015, 56m*